Rewrite the livestreaming guide (#4691)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Guides/Livestreaming_osu!/en.md

# Livestreaming osu!

> This guide will show you how to livestream osu! on Twitch using [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software"). Doing so is relatively simple, although it might require a reliable computer able to both run and livestream osu!.

Reviewer: reliable ... able

```suggestion
This guide will show you how to livestream osu! on Twitch using [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software"). Doing so is relatively simple, although it might require a powerful computer able to run and livestream osu! at the same time.
```

## Twitch

If you have not already, sign up for a [Twitch account](https://www.twitch.tv/signup "Twitch").

Now you will need to setup your account for livestreaming osu!. From the main page, click on your avatar in the top right and select `Creator Dashboard` from the list.

![](img/dashboard.png "Entering the Creator Dashboard")

Creator Dashboard is the place where you can configure your stream information, chat moderation, profile info, and more. For now, we will focus on stream information. From the main page of the dashboard, click on the `Stream Manager` button on the left, and then choose the `Edit Stream Info` option on the right.

A dialog will open for you to enter your stream's information. You can fill the fields however you want; however, the title should comprehend what the stream will be about and also be inviting for people viewing the list of available streams. The category must be set to the game you are playing at the moment, which would be `osu!`.

![](img/stream-info.png "Editing your stream's information")

> ---

Reviewer: somewhere around here you should mention that the category is mirrored on the website as well and is updated once in a while (think once in 1 or 5 minutes): https://osu.ppy.sh/community/livestreams

> After editing you stream's information, click the `Done` button. Now click on the `Preferences` button on the left, then `Channel`. Look for the `Primary Stream key` field and click `Copy`. Do not share this key. For now, paste the copied stream key in a notepad.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After editing your stream's information, click the `Done` button. Now click on the `Preferences` button on the left, then `Channel`. Look for the `Primary Stream key` field and click `Copy`. **Do not share this key**. For now, paste the copied stream key in a notepad.
```

> After editing your stream's information, click the `Done` button. Now click on the `Preferences` button on the left, then `Channel`. Look for the `Primary Stream key` field and click `Copy`. **Do not share this key**. For now, paste the copied stream key in a notepad.

Reviewer: a explanation even so short is always better
```suggestion
After editing your stream's information, click the `Done` button. Now click on the `Preferences` button on the left, then `Channel`. Look for the `Primary Stream key` field and click `Copy`. **Do not share this key — it allows for streaming on your behalf**. For now, paste the copied stream key in a notepad.
```

Reviewer 3: I think the spaces between the emdash should be removed. So it should be like this instead.
```suggestion
After editing your stream's information, click the `Done` button. Now click on the `Preferences` button on the left, then `Channel`. Look for the `Primary Stream key` field and click `Copy`. **Do not share this key—it allows for streaming on your behalf**. For now, paste the copied stream key in a notepad.
```

Reviewer: yeah, English punctuation gets me sometimes.

![](img/stream-key.png "Getting the stream key")

## OBS Studio

After you create and configure your Twitch account, the next thing you will need is a streaming app. This guide will use OBS Studio; however, you are free to check any other alternatives (e.g. [XSplit Broadcaster](https://www.xsplit.com/broadcaster "XSplit Broadcaster")).

> Proceed to the [OBS Studio's website](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software") and download the installer for your operating system. Open the installer and follow the steps to install the app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Proceed to [OBS Studio's website](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software") and download the installer for your operating system. Open the installer and follow the steps to install the app.
```

Reviewer 3: or maybe
```suggestion
Proceed to the [OBS Studio website](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software") and download the installer for your operating system. Open the installer and follow the steps to install the app.
```

> ### Configuring OBS

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configuring OBS Studio
```

When you launch OBS Studio for the first time, the auto-configuration wizard will open. Choose `Optimize for streaming, recording is secondary` and click `Next`.

![](img/configuration-wizard.png "OBS Studio's auto-configuration wizard")

The next section to be configured are video settings. Choose the resolution of your screen for the `Base (Canvas) Resolution` field (should be detected automatically), and `Either 60 or 30, but prefer 60 when possible` for the `FPS` field.

Finally, you will need to configure the stream information for OBS Studio to livestream on Twitch. Click the `Use Stream Key` button, and enter the Primary Stream key that was copied earlier into the field. Leave other options checked as they are, and click `Next`.

> ![](img/adding-stream-key.png "Configuring stream information in OBS")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![](img/adding-stream-key.png "Configuring stream information in OBS Studio")
```

> Now OBS Studio will perform auto-configuration, in order to find the best settings for your device. Press `Apply Settings` after the process is finished.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After this, OBS Studio will auto-configure itself to find the best settings for your device. Click `Apply Settings` when this is completed.
```

### Adding a scene

> The last thing you will need to start streaming is a scene containing the osu! window. To create one, right-click on the `Scenes` box from OBS' main window and select `Add` to be prompted with a scene creation window. Name it "osu!", and click `OK` to continue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The last thing you will need to start streaming is a scene containing the osu! window. To create one, right-click on the `Scenes` box from OBS Studio's main window and select `Add` to be prompted with a scene creation window. Name it "osu!", and click `OK` to continue.
```

> Now we will add a source for OBS to capture game's window. Before we continue, open osu! to make it possible. Right-click on the `Sources` box, and select `Add` -> `Game Capture` to be prompted with a source selection window. Name the source whatever you want it to be called ("osu!" or "Game window" are fine), and click `OK`. Select `Capture specific window` from the `Mode` dropdown, and select `[osu!.exe]: osu!` for the `Window` list. Then, check `Capture Cursor` if it's not already, and click `OK`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now OBS Studio needs a source to capture osu!. First, open osu!, then—in OBS Studio—right-click on the `Sources` box and select `Add` -> `Game Capture`. This will open the source selection dialog. You can name the source as "osu!", but it can be whatever you want, then click `OK`. Select `Capture specific window` from the `Mode` dropdown then select `[osu!.exe]: osu!` from the `Window` list. Then, check `Capture Cursor` if it's not already, and click `OK`.
```
if Capture Cursor is checked, wouldn't this make the hardware cursor visible? (This suggestion does not change the last sentence to address this)

Author: it doesnt make the hardware cursor visible, but it looks like unchecking this option doesnt change anything anyways, so i will remove it completely ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

> Now we will add a source for OBS to capture game's window. Before we continue, open osu! to make it possible. Right-click on the `Sources` box, and select `Add` -> `Game Capture` to be prompted with a source selection window. Name the source whatever you want it to be called ("osu!" or "Game window" are fine), and click `OK`. Select `Capture specific window` from the `Mode` dropdown, and select `[osu!.exe]: osu!` for the `Window` list. Then, check `Capture Cursor` if it's not already, and click `OK`).

Reviewer: it's worth mentioning that for some reason osu! can't be captured when running in the fullscreen mode

Author: osu! can be captured in fullscreen mode, although the window itself must be focused if you want to see movement on OBS (which is a case for all fullscreen apps i think?

Reviewer: unless there's a difference between recording and streaming for OBS, and if you don't mix borderless window with the fullscreen mode, that could be possible, yeah. I'll see if I can disprove my own words

![](img/game-capture.png "Capturing the osu! window in OBS")

> If everything goes right, you should be able to see the osu! window in the preview.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If everything goes right, you should see the osu! window in the preview.
```

![](img/successful-capture.png "Stream preview in OBS")

## What's next?

> Now, after you configured OBS Studio and your Twitch account, click `Start Streaming` in OBS to make a livestream. That's all you need to know to start your journey with streaming. Of course we have only covered the basics of livestreaming, and there are many things you can still do, with the most important of them being:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, after you configure OBS Studio and your Twitch account, click `Start Streaming` in OBS Studio to make a livestream. That's all you need to know to start your journey with streaming. Of course we have only covered the basics of livestreaming, and there are many things you can still do, with the most important of them being:
```

I'm think the second sentence forward from this paragraph reads a bit weirdly, but I am not sure what to change in it without make it weirder.

> - **Find the best streaming settings.** The automatically configured settings provided by OBS might not be perfect for your service, so check if your livestream is working fine and what needs to be improved, in order to provide the best experience for your viewers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Find the best streaming settings.** The automatically configured settings provided by OBS Studio might not be perfect for your service. So check if your livestream is working fine and what needs to be improved to provide the best experience for your viewers.
```

> - **Find the best streaming settings.** The automatically configured settings provided by OBS might not be perfect for your service, so check if your livestream is working fine and what needs to be improved, in order to provide the best experience for your viewers.

Reviewer: I guarantee this is the point most people will visit this guide for (only to read "well, go figure!"), but you can add a TODO right now instead of immediate expansion

Author: well the auto-configuration should provide the best settings for osu!, but there might some exceptions in which OBS wont work properly

i dont think we can really do anything about that as there are no universal settings for every device

- **Build a community.** This one is probably the hardest, as building your own community from scratch requires insane amounts of dedication and time.

> - **Improve livestream quality.** This includes adding new overlays, camera capture, scene change effects, osu!-specific plugins, Twitch chat display, Twitch integrity, and many more. You can also improve your channel's appearance by setting an avatar, banner and general info.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Improve livestream quality.** This can include adding new overlays, camera capture, scene transition effects, osu!-specific plugins, Twitch chat display, Twitch integrity, and many more. You can also improve your channel's appearance by setting an avatar, banner, and general info.
```

> 
> ...and most importantly, have fun!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- ...and most importantly, have fun!
```

probably make this part of the bullet points too?

# Livestreaming osu!

> In this guide, you will how to livestream osu! on Twitch using [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/). Doing so is a relatively simple process, although it might require a reliable computer able to both run and livestream osu!.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide will show you how to livestream osu! on Twitch using [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software"). Doing so is a relatively simple, although it might require a reliable computer able to both run and livestream osu!.
```

> This guide will show you how to livestream osu! on Twitch using [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software"). Doing so is a relatively simple, although it might require a reliable computer able to both run and livestream osu!.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide will show you how to livestream osu! on Twitch using [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software"). Doing so is relatively simple, although it might require a reliable computer able to both run and livestream osu!.
```
my mistake here, whoops

> ## Preparing Twitch for streaming

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Twitch
```

### Creating an account

Before you setup the streaming app, you will first need to create an account on Twitch. Proceed to [Twitch's website](https://twitch.tv) and click the `Sign Up` button in the top right - you will be prompted with a registration form. Fill in the fields and click `Sign Up` again.

![](img/twitch-registration.png "Registrating on Twitch")

> Now you will be asked to enter a verification code that was sent on your email address. After that, your account will be accessible at `twitch.tv/<username>` and ready to go!

Reviewer 3: I don't think this guide needs a walk through to sign up for a Twitch account. It can probably just be:

```md
If you have not already, sign up for a [Twitch account](https://www.twitch.tv/signup "Twitch").
```

If you do go with this, this section would then be short, so maybe just merge it in with the other section or get rid of both subheadings.

### Preparing your account

Now that you have a Twitch account, you will need to setup it for livestreaming osu!. From the main page, click on your avatar in the top right and select `Creator Dashboard` from the list.

![](img/dashboard.png "Entering the Creator Dashboard")

> Creator Dashboard is the place, where you can configure your stream information, chat moderation, profile info, and more. For now, we will focus on stream information. From the main page of the dashboard, click on the `Stream Manager` button on the left, and then choose the `Edit Stream Info` option on the right.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Creator Dashboard is the place where you can configure your stream information, chat moderation, profile info, and more. For now, we will focus on stream information. From the main page of the dashboard, click on the `Stream Manager` button on the left, and then choose the `Edit Stream Info` option on the right.
```

> Now you will be prompted with an edit box of your stream's info. You are free to fill in any of these fields, but in this guide we will only cover the `Title` and `Category` boxes. The title should comprehend what will be briefly done in the stream. It should also be inviting for people visiting the list of available streams. The category must be set to the game you are playing at the moment, which we will set to `osu!`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A dialog will open for you to enter your stream's information. You can fill the fields however you want; however, the title should comprehend what the stream will be about and also be inviting for people viewing the list of available streams. The category must be set to the game you are playing at the moment, which would be `osu!`.
```

![](img/stream-info.png "Editing your stream's information")

---

> After you are finish editing you stream's information, click the `Done` button. Now click on the `Preferences` button on the left, and choose `Channel`. Look for the `Primary Stream key` option and click `Copy`. Save the copied text in a notepad - we will need it later on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After editing you stream's information, click the `Done` button. Now click on the `Preferences` button on the left, then `Channel`. Look for the `Primary Stream key` field and click `Copy`. Do not share this key. For now, paste the copied stream key in a notepad.
```

![](img/stream-key.png "Getting the stream key")

> ## Preparing OBS Studio for streaming

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## OBS Studio
```

> After you create and configure your Twitch account, the next thing you will need is a streaming app. In this guide, we will use OBS Studio, but you are free to check any other alternatives (e.g. [XSplit Broadcaster](https://www.xsplit.com/broadcaster)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you create and configure your Twitch account, the next thing you will need is a streaming app. This guide will use OBS Studio; however, you are free to check any other alternatives (e.g. [XSplit Broadcaster](https://www.xsplit.com/broadcaster "XSplit Broadcaster")).
```

> Proceed to the [OBS Studio's website](https://obsproject.com/) and download the installer for your operating system. Open the installer and follow the steps to install the app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Proceed to the [OBS Studio's website](https://obsproject.com/ "Open Broadcaster Software") and download the installer for your operating system. Open the installer and follow the steps to install the app.
```

### Configuring OBS

> After you launch OBS Studio for the first time, you will be prompted with an auto-configuration wizard. Choose `Optimize for streaming, recording is secondary` and click `Next`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you launch OBS Studio for the first time, the auto-configuration wizard will open. Choose `Optimize for streaming, recording is secondary` and click `Next`.
```

![](img/configuration-wizard.png "OBS Studio's auto-configuration wizard")

The next section to be configured are video settings. Choose the resolution of your screen for the `Base (Canvas) Resolution` field (should be detected automatically), and `Either 60 or 30, but prefer 60 when possible` for the `FPS` field.

> Finally, you will need to configure stream information for OBS Studio to be able to livestream on Twitch. Click the `Use Stream Key` button, and enter the key we copied during the registration into the field. Leave other options checked as they are, and click `Next`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, you will need to configure the stream information for OBS Studio to livestream on Twitch. Click the `Use Stream Key` button, and enter the Primary Stream key that was copied earlier into the field. Leave other options checked as they are, and click `Next`.
```

![](img/adding-stream-key.png "Configuring stream information in OBS")

Now OBS Studio will perform auto-configuration, in order to find the best settings for your device. Press `Apply Settings` after the process is finished.

### Adding a scene

> The last thing we will need to start streaming is a scene containing the osu! window. To create one, right-click on the `Scenes` box from OBS' main window and select `Add` to be prompted with a scene creation window. Name it "osu!", and click `OK` to continue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The last thing you will need to start streaming is a scene containing the osu! window. To create one, right-click on the `Scenes` box from OBS' main window and select `Add` to be prompted with a scene creation window. Name it "osu!", and click `OK` to continue.
```
